# Generated Implementation Artifact Skeleton for IA_CLASS_NAME

* Interface Name: IA_CLASS_NAME
* Namespace: IA_NAMESPACE
* Java Package: IA_PACKAGE
* URL: IA_ARTIFACT_TEMPLATE_UPLOAD_URL../

## Preconditions
To develop and build this Implementation Artifact you need Maven and Eclipse.
- How to install maven is described at the end of this file
- If you use an Eclipse workspace for the first time with a maven project you've to run this command before starting eclipse:
  `mvn -Declipse.workspace="<your_workspace_location>" eclipse:configure-workspace`
  - When using Windows: Make sure you replace `\` (backslashes) with `/` (slashes)
  - It does not hurt to run it multiple times
  - This command must not be executed in a particular folder

## Preparations
- Unzip the archive generated by Winery into a location of your choice.
- Note: All following maven commands are executed on a shell in the root folder of the Implementation Artifact.

## Create Eclipse project
- Run `mvn eclipse:eclipse`
- Open Eclipse
- 'File' -> 'Import' -> 'Existing Project into Workspace' -> click 'Next'
- Click 'Browse' and select folder where you unzipped the generated Implementation Artifact
- Select the project from the list and click 'Finish'

## Test your Implementation Artifact
- Run `mvn clean package tomcat7:run-war`
 (more information: http://tomcat.apache.org/maven-plugin-trunk/tomcat7-maven-plugin/plugin-info.html)
- Open this page to see the list of available services: http://localhost:9090/services/
- This page also links the WSDL
- With the WSDL you are able to test your IA using SOAPui or other tools.

### Upload your Implementation Artifact
You have to options to do this:

### 1) Automatically (to the Winery instance this IA project was generated with)
- Run `mvn deploy`
- The WAR is directly uploaded into the correct ArtifactTemplate. Previous versions are overwritten.

### 2) Manually
- Run `mvn clean package`
- Locate the WAR file in the /target folder
- Open Winery in your browser, locate the NodeType and then click through to the Implementation of the respective Interface, its Implementation Artifacts and lastly to the ArtifactTemplate representing this IA.
- Upload the WAR file by clicking on the "Attach file..." button

## Install Maven
When using [chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/): Just run `choco install maven`.
We recommend to install JDK8 via chocolatey, too: `choco install jdk8`.
This ensures all required settings are in place (e.g., `JAVA_HOME` always uptodate).

In case you want to install it automatically:
- Download latest release of Maven: http://maven.apache.org/download.cgi (Binary zip)
- Unzip into directory of your choice
- Set environment variables (in system environment variables, not the ones for the user account):
  - Check that the variable `JAVA_HOME` is set. If not, create it and enter the path to your JDK, e.g., `C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_112`.
  - Create the following environment variables
    - `M2_HOME`: `C:\Path\where\your\maven\was\unzipped\to` (no backslash at the end)
    - `M2`: `%M2_HOME%\bin`
    - `MAVEN_OPTS`: `-Xms256m -Xmx512m`
  - Append `;%M2%` to the `Path` environment variable. Make sure to separate the new entry with a semicolon (`;`) from the last one.
- After that you have to open a new command line windows (if you already opened one) to let the changes take effect.
