# Projects

This section provides a short overview on all projects Winery consists of.

## Project org.eclipse.winery.common

This project contains classes used by the repository and topology modeler projects. It contains constants, the id
system, interface definitions for repository access and the datatype to manage Winery's extended key/value properties.

## Project org.eclipse.winery.highlevelrestapi

This project contains an API to communicate with REST services. It provides an abstraction layer above Apache
Commons HTTPClient. It is used by projects generated by the IA generator to upload compiled 
implementations as implementation artifacts.

## Project org.eclipse.winery.generators.ia

This project contains the generator which generates a NodeType implementation based on a NodeType
interface.

## Project org.eclipse.winery.model.csar.toscametafile

This project contains the model for the file "Tosca.meta".

## Project org.eclipse.winery.model.selfservice

This project contains the model for the self service portal.  
It is used by the Vinothek [BBKL14] to display user defined data.

## Project org.eclipse.winery.model.tosca

This project contains a JAX B generated model of the XSD of OASIS TOSCA v1.0. The XSD hat to be modified to
enable proper referencing and use. An Implementation Artifactmay carry a "name" attribute. The contents of
properties of Boundary Definitions are processed in "lax" mode.

## Project org.eclipse.winery.repository

This is the heart of Winery. This project hosts the repository, where all entities of TOSCA are stored and
managed. It realizes the components "Type, Template, and Artifact Management" and "Repository" (Figure 1).

## Project org.eclipse.winery.repository.client

Whis project hosts a client using the REST API of the repository and offering a Java object based client to the
Winery repository.

## Project org.eclipse.winery.repository.configuration

This project contains configurations used in the repository. Example are GitHub OAuth credentials. They must be 
configured in order to use them locally!

## Project org.eclipse.winery.repository.rest

This project contains the REST resources.

## Project org.eclipse.winery.repository.ui

This project contains the Angular ui for the repository. Here, the whole repository can be managed and
configured. The repository-ui documentation is generated during `npm run build` process and can be found in
`org.eclipse.winery.repository.ui/dist/doc/` folder.

## Project org.eclipse.winery.topologymodeler

This part of Winery enables modeling topologies graphically. It realizes the component "Topology Modeler"
(Figure 1).

## License

Copyright (c) 2013-2018 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation

See the NOTICE file(s) distributed with this work for additional
information regarding copyright ownership.

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0, or the Apache Software License 2.0
which is available at https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.

SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR Apache-2.0
